Sooooo … racism didn’t exist … before Obama? Like, “right before” or “always before”? Which “before” does this omnibus genius mean? Like “before, even back in the 50’s when African Americans were being murdered by burning to death?” Or, “Just only maybe 15 minutes before Obama became president?” Obama sure brought out a lot of racism …  by being the first black president.  Back when my dad was a boy (per him), they had a saying, “That pisses me off more than seeing a rich nigger.” That is:  Black people are acceptable as long as they’re poor and subservient. Then my delusions of superiority are confirmed. But put one in power, give him wealth, give him equality (god for bid superiority) and watch white people complain about the world! There’s a chorus on the far right that is accurate in pointing out that there is a lot more racial tension now, but not because of blacks, but because blacks are tired of being swept aside. Inspired by a black president, they’ve started acting up and fighting against the systemic racism that they’ve been generally turning a blind-eye to. Some white people, content in their echo chambers and unmolested by white men residing in the WHITE HOUSE, felt that since they weren’t seeing the racism with their own eyes, that things were getting better. Because, well, as long as they couldn’t see it, I guess it was okay. This is classic “1950’s mentality”. Hide the problem, sweep it under the rug. Leave it in the past. Just … let’s not talk about it. Lastly, there is one big difference. Something different about our world today than pre 2008. We are so used to rapid technological changes that we are so accustomed to this thing in our life that wasn’t there before. We have this thing on us all the time now. It captures images and voice with incredible clarity. It never goes away and that thing can move the images and voice and video to the internet with speeds unimaginable just 10 years ago. Because of that thing, no matter where a cop goes, he’s being watched by the whole world. That power didn’t exist by the billions before Obama. It does today. Because of that power, white people cannot deny what happens to black people all the time and black people now know that they were right all along and it’s available for your viewing pleasure just a few clicks away.