First off, there are two competing definitions of  race:  the narrow definition, where race refers roughly to what continent your ancestors came from several thousand years ago (blacks from Africa, whites from Europe, Asians from Asia, Native Americans from the Americas, and other terms for smaller or mixed-race groups); and the broad one, which indicates any cultural grouping or ethnicity including skin color, national origin, ancestry, religions, language(s) spoken, cultural expressions of sexual/gender traits, or other statistical clusters from the field of social science. Racism  is mistreatment or injustice against people by race. Sometimes people who advocate for the narrow definition of race as the only definition will nitpick about use of the broad definition. For example, they might say, “Islamophobia is not racism because Muslim is not a race.” They're fishing for people to use some other term like  prejudice  or  arbitrary   discrimination,  but the real answer is that prejudice is prejudice, and the specific type is not a relevant consideration. There's no moral weight to the argument that “This kind of bigotry isn't technically racism.” I'm completely fine with  racism  being accepted as a synonym of  prejudice  except in situations where the distinction carries some specified moral or legal significance, with the burden on the one making the distinction to substantiate the distinction's relevance. I see racism as coming in three forms: All three kinds of racism are undesirable. Base racism provides the motive and intent to generalize and discriminate, generalizations provide a superficial impression of scientific legitimacy to prejudices and institutional racism while hiding logical fallacies and factual errors that built that fascade, and institutional racism can maintain unjust outcomes and arbitrary discrimination even in the absense of any continuing base racism to motivate that harm. The same way that writing a book can help ideas survive even after the writer changes their mind or dies, institutional racism can maintain continuing injustice even after the system's designers die or abandon base racism. Both conservatives and liberals oppose racism, but (speaking very broadly) conservatives tend to prefer narrower definitions of racism and higher standards of proof to demonstrate material injustice. Possibly the narrowest interpretation of racism comes from self-described  race realists,  who argue that solid evidence of statistical difference between the races eliminates the word arbitrary from  arbitrary discrimination,  and turns different treatment by race into a reasonable and just response to scientifically proven differences.  Discrimination,  these race realists have been known to say,  is the knife of reason. I think that race realists make too much of slight differences, often trust poor data, abandon my beloved ideology of individualism in favor of statistical generalization, and generally abuse the scientific method. The vast majority of the racial differences they argue are real are, in fact, the conclusions of poor science, and they will often devolve into unprovable, unfalsifiable conspiracy theories about scientific censorship to justify their trust in fringe and untrustworthy research. They use the technical accuracy of a single truth — there are some differences between the races that can be scientifically proven — to justify vast generalizations and still arbitrary discrimination based on bad science. They can safely denounce base racism and arbitrary discrimination from their philosophical base while, sometimes unintentionally but often intentionally, fighting a battle to make arbitrary discrimination and institutional racism socially acceptable. They will often say, “I'm not a racist, I am a race realist,” but they frequently fail to uphold the high scientific standards necessary to justify that distinction. Many conservatives will argue that a false accusation of “Racist!” is just as bad as actual racism, or that in the quantities we see in modern society that the many accusations of racism have become  more  harmful than actual racism. Usually this is argued from the assumption that only base racism is real, and with the understanding that only the most egregious examples deserve to be called racist. That is two false assumptions. Base racism will always be part of every society, and keeping it marginalized so that races are not mistreated will require constant vigilance. Accusations of racism should be used when approperate, with both overuse and underuse each bringing similar cultural dangers. I see no reason to believe that accusations of racism are the greater problem today. I am a conservative. That means, in part, that I hold a high standard of proof to justify claims generally. I don't easily change my mind in response to the predictions of theory. I need demonstrable consequences already observed in reality to persuade me. I apply those high standards of proof to individual claims of racism and to the broad claim of racism's end in our society. Perhaps unusually among conservatives, I advocate rigorous investigation of our society and our government to locate and eliminate institutional racism, vigorous efforts to see if the high standard of proof can be met. From the Confederates' thwarting of black's civil rights during reconstruction to the modern rise of the alt right and race realism, there are plenty of attempts to establish institutional racism and plenty of evidence of various successes. I demand a very high standard of proof of the claim that institutional racism is no longer a significant factor in modern life, and great energy applied to investigating the question. I am skeptical and critical of affirmative action, as defined as placing intentionally skewed preferences in society with the intent of counteracting existing inequalities. These programs theoretically could improve practical outcomes, but they do little to remove the underlying injustices and inequalities in society. In the same way that boiled (distilled, ionized) water doesn't taste as good as spring water (especially prior to UV deionization), affirmative action layered on top of an unjust system is less palatable than fixing the injustice. I empathize with the need to improve outcomes for minorities, but this approach to the problem seems like a catalyst for backlash, justifying backlash in much of the public imagination. Racism defies the Declaration of Independence's assertion that all men are created equal, and are thereby endowed with certain rights under the law. The 14th Amendment to the Constitution asserts that these rights are to be equal under the law, with no distinctions made by arbitrary criteria. Unless and until the criteria can be shown to be materially relevant, the law's treatment of people must be equal. Violent criminal convicts can be treated as risks of violence based on their individual records, but people with the same parents, skin color, or national origin as a violent convict cannot be treated as violent convicts themselves. They must be treated the same as others in our broad society, since none of those factors are material criteria for determining a material threat. That is my view on racism.