I’m rather amazed at just how…  wrong  the two answers here were. Fact of the matter is, the only thing similar between the Hitlerite racism and the more ‘old-fashioned’ racism of the Americas and to a lesser degree, parts of Western Europe, was… that they were both racism and that both were largely nonsensical. Beyond that, they could hardly be any more different. In the United States, the root of the KKK-esque racism was an obsession with blood, a nonsensical belief in the purity of race and the inherent superiority of the white over the colored. In the book of the KKK, the white was  always  superior, and the black  always  inferior. Under the National Socialist rule things were different. While the notion of ethnic superiority, a vital component of racism, was still present, it carried a strong cultural edge: in the Third Reich, the obsession with cultural purity perhaps overcame the racial obsession. This was the root behind the Reich’s widespread Germanization policies, targeting ‘suitable candidates’ from all over Europe to over generations be made into Germans, entire nations subsumed into the Reich’s future ‘Germans’. Post box in Posen, occupied Poland. Overwhelming use of German language instead of the local languages was a major factor of Germanization policies in some occupied territories. In the contemporary racism of United States, anyone holding KKK-esque beliefs would find it absolutely  preposterous  that a black, or even someone with partial black ancestry, could  ever  be the racial equivalent of a white person no matter what culture he adopted or grew in. In the Third Reich, this was completely normal: what made you ‘suitable for Germanization’ was a far broader racial category than what made a man Aryan. The  Volksliste  in occupied Poland, Heydrich’s war against the Czech culture in Bohemia, all of those had one ultimate goal: cultural assimilation of racially suitable groups. In the Reich, the racial lines were far less stern and far more porous. Another vital distinction between the two systems was  who  was superior and who was inferior. In the United States it was a simple, almost visual difference: the whites came on top, with some exceptions(No Irish Need Apply, for an example), and all manner of people of color were at the bottom. In Germany, the question’s answers were rooted in twisted philosophy and deep, pseudoscientific theories on which much thought was expended. There was little focus on something as rudimentary as skin color: pale-skinned Jews could and did find themselves target of an engine of extermination while the thousands of Afro-Germans never faced systemic persecution. It was far better to be a Jew in the US rather than in the Reich, while a black in Germany was guaranteed to face markedly less discrimination than one in the US. Many people loathed as inferior in the US were among the top of the racial strata according to Germany, and vice versa. The only blacks in Germany to ever face significant discrimination was a small group of approximately four hundred, the so-called Rhineland Bastards, and they were targeted not just because they were blacks but because they were children of Allied occupation soldiers: their existence was considered insulting, their mothers traitors, and they were forcibly sterilized(but not subjected to the Holocaust). The National Socialists and the KKK both hated someone for racial reasons… but they hated different people, and they defined the objects of their hate in drastically differing methodology. Thus, it was inevitable that unlike the common conception, they were really not fans of each other. Two men in the robes of the KKK walk in the streets of Reich-occupied streets of the United States, as portrayed in Wolfenstein II: The New Colossus. The portrayal as KKK as an ally of the National Socialists is an interesting example of common misconceptions. As much as people like to lump together these two groups, they were not, and never worked together.  Ausland-SD , the SS foreign intelligence branch which had fingers in a dozen pies in the United States, never even bothered to contact the KKK, which they regarded with veiled disdain. The imagery of the Klansman with his hood up, and the notorious ‘human zoos’, were an ubiquitous part of anti-American wartime propaganda: As a final word, unlike what one answer here claimed, I have my doubts that the Americans sharing the KKK’s opinion of racial relations had any qualms with Germany’s ‘mistreatment’ of American black athletes, especially since such a thing never took place. If they indeed were taking umbrage with the  Reich  of all places and not with their own country for ill treatment of black Americans, they were either imbeciles or were being astoundingly and willfully blind about it. Hitler saluted Jesse Owens publicly, and shook his hand in private, while in the United States the man was made to enter his own hotel from the service entry, and was not even decided worthy of getting a telegram from Roosevelt. Being a black in Germany in the thirties was decidedly superior an alternative to being in the United States, as Owens himself agreed. At least in Germany, a black could sit wherever he wished on a bus, and eat at whatever restaurant he damn well pleased. If any American was taking umbrage at Germany for ‘ill treatment of American black athletes’, I dare postulate they were suffering from a severe case of the pot and kettle syndrome.