It’s absolutely misleading. And incredibly stupid. In Louisiana, the people decided to rename a street after Dr. King. However, there were people against it. Like this guy in the picture. This is what he said… “I’ve never had a racist bone in my body. I’ve worked for a bunch of ’em, been in their houses, been in a lot of your guys’ houses, ” he said. “But if you keep pushing me I will show you my racist ways. [Mayor ] Mitch Landrieu can go to hell. Praise the Lord for Bobby Jindal.” The all white council voted unanimously against the name change… This is just a small look into racism in America. See… Back in the uh..”good” old days of Jim Crow, Black people pretty much ‘stayed in their place’. They did what they were told, and somehow were still terrorized by some bored white people who just liked doing this kind of thing for fun. They hated black people so much just sometimes the sight of them could spark violence. But then… Black people started raising all hell. They were sick and tired of being treated as second class citizens in a country that they fought for too and paid taxes in. How dare they? In 1964, the Civil Rights act was passed and a year later, the Voting Rights Act was passed. I’ve posted this many times as well as a few other great writers before but please pay attention this time. Now look at this timeline and tell me how long Black people have actually had full citizenship in this country? Do you see the areas of red and yellow? Well that was the time where Black people weren’t really allowed to challenge the status quo. This is a time where Whites pretty much did what they wanted to do. They put up offensive statues and memorials without thinking about how Black people would feel about these things. Who would dare speak out? The ones who did were attacked, beaten, and assassinated. Who would sign up for that? But now… Black people are finally speaking up and out and talking about things like police brutality, poor housing, bad schools, racism, prejudiced, systemic racism, everything! But oh no! When we do talk about these things, we get… Everything isn’t always about race! Why you gotta bring race into this? Sometimes, it’s not racial. Jesus, you talk about race all the time, I’m sick and tired of it. Then you get attitudes like the one I posted. Everyone says we need to have a discussion about race, but it obviously is the wrong time because no one really wants to have it! It’s just something people say. No one means it. What they want is for Black people to shut up. But we’ve never done that and we won’t now. Black people are some of the most patriotic people in the country. Why? Because we’ve always held this country accountable for her actions. We’ve always held America to a high standard, the standard that she set for other nations around the world but won’t always live up to it at home. We know this. We fight in wars, pointing our guns in the faces of others around the world and come home to bad schools, bad healthcare, and politicians that don’t care about us. We know these things. So are we causing more racism by speaking up and out? No. We’re doing what we’ve always done. Calling people out on their shit. And that never gets tiring.