As an immigrant, I’m going to say that the answer to this is a strong no. In the US, a large segment of the population is aware that racism is bad. Even people who hold racist opinions have a negative opinion of racism. This is why so many of them feel the need to preface their comments with “I’m not racist, but…” This kind of awareness that bigotry in the abstract, as opposed to bigotry directed against one’s own group, is a bad thing is really rare elsewhere in the world. The kind of prejudice that you encounter on a daily basis in many countries of the world has no sense of shame. People will be subjected to intense mockery for nothing more than having an accent. People will casually mention in polite society that immigrants from Haiti or Lebanon or Liberia or Ghana or Nigeria or Poland or Korea or India or Turkey or wherever else are ruining their host nation, and they’ll do so without batting an eye. Legally enforced discrimination will be placed on foreign national and their descendants without ever being questioned. If a person from an immigrant community commits a crime, there can easily be riots against all members of that community. In the US, it was possible for a Black man to be president! It wasn’t accepted by all the population, to be sure, but you’re not going to see that happen in France, Germany, Brazil, or Japan any time soon. The racism that exists in the US generally takes two forms: There are other forms of racism, of course, but these are the two that have an impact on a person’s socioeconomic prospects. I would say that, compared to what I have observed and read about elsewhere, American structural racism is relatively mild. And face-to-face racism is largely frowned upon. People can even lose their job for making a racist comment on air. You’re certainly not going to see that in very many other places. Of course, the election of Trump shows that large segments of the American public are not bothered by racism. But, as a non-White immigrant, I feel that I am treated much better here than I would be in most other places.