This is roughly how I’m getting through this (the Trump) administration. It’s… I suspect it’s not the majority opinion, but it is mine. I’m from Louisiana—it’s where I was born, where much of my family lives. Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. I grew up visiting a plantation house in my mother’s side of the family. I grew up visiting those southern small towns that are so often a part of southern conservative nostalgia. I grew up visiting relatives in places that had dime operated soda machines from the 1950s still in operation, small mom and pop stores that still sold homemade candy for pocket change. I grew up visiting places where the churches were still tiny and attached to graveyards going back hundreds of years, where off-roading on three wheelers and fishing were a major source of entertainment, and where nearly everyone farmed or hunted. I grew up places where, if I happened to run into a black person, they apologized and did not make eye contact, where a man or woman more than twice my age flinched on making it to the door just before me, in a culture where age means authority. I grew up visiting a grandfather who had black maids, sitting in the kitchen while the black cook worked and pestering her while she answered what must have been an utterly annoying and inane set of questions from a white child with the utmost respect, because I was white, in a culture where otherwise, children were to be seen and not heard. I grew up listening to fear about black people rioting. I grew up being told to stay indoors because black people were animals, that any civility they displayed was only a light gloss on an underlying animality that would burst forth from time to time when they were upset, and was the rule of their lives in urban settings. I grew up being told that slavery was for the benefit of black people, because they could not take care of themselves, the savages. I grew up being told that the north oppressed us and that the Civil War was to protect us from that oppression. I grew up hearing that black people loved being slaves, that the rumors about slavery being violently, sadistically oppressive were just things northerners said to make people unhappy with southerners. I grew up hearing that black people were monkeys, were not fully human. My grandmother sat me down and told me that she was taught in public school that the features of black people were a sign that they were, at best, demi-human. I grew up hearing that interracial relationships or, god forbid, children made one irretrievably contaminated, unfit for good society. I grew up visiting homes with slaves’ quarters slowly crumbling into the ubiquitous kudzu in an otherwise mowed yard, being told they were for “domestic help” and signs that we “took care of them” as benevolent masters. I grew up being told when I could and could not go camping, because the KKK was holding a rally in the local woods. I am 42 years old. These things are in living memory, and in fact I suspect if I were to visit the right set of relatives, common dinner table topics despite what people seem to believe is our current state of enlightenment. I hear references to these things and things like them in mainstream media, coming from the mouths of people  who are not from the south , coming from the mouths of members of the Trump administration. I hear references to it in every single solitary myth about urban areas, about who uses social services, every time someone speculates that a black person is not in their position because they earned it, but because of affirmative action. Any time we discuss making sure no one is cheating the system, I hear those myths over and over. I hear those dog whistles very clearly. I grew up learning about them, a special education which underpinned the education I got in schools. Those dog whistles were meant to make me feel special, to make me want to cling harder to the white people around me. They were meant to make me feel justified, to make me feel like I just worked harder, was fundamentally better than black people and anyone who wasn’t white. They were meant to make me believe that I was the best my society had to offer—white, intelligent, educated, middle class background, world-traveled. I remember being horrified the first time someone black and twice or more my age flinched away from me, dropping their eyes to avoid eye contact for fear of me. Horror. Absolute, total, gut-wrenching horror. I tried to apologize to the woman but she hurried off, afraid of me. I hadn’t hit puberty and I was terrifying. Given the history of what happens to black people who interact with white women and girls, let alone the history of lynching, I can’t blame her. It took until February of this year, 2019, to make lynching a federal crime. That education was an education in how to be a monster, and it probably would have worked to help me to fit in better. I see traces of it in quite a few of the interactions I observe of people here in the US, especially across groups of apparent ethnicity. I see it in liberal and conservative bastions, and as long as no one says racism, it couldn’t possibly be a problem. We are sick, America, and no amount of denying it has ever healed our sickness. It never will. We are profoundly ill, and racism is one of the illnesses that beset us. Trump would not be in office if he hadn’t tapped that fear after a black president. People complain about economics, but their examples about who are cheating the system, who they have to be protected from, are almost always black (or Hispanic.) People complain about discussing racism, because if you mention it, you summon it to befoul the discussion. For the record, you couldn’t summon it so easily if it wasn’t an omnipresent part of the political landscape. And naming a phenomenon is something that happens  after  it occurs, not something conjured from thin air on the use of the word. I can remember arguing with people, and still do on occasion, who want to believe that racism is not a problem, that we have laws now and have conquered it. I argue with people who think racism is something that mostly happened in the beginning of the twentieth century or maybe just a problem of inbred hicks in the south—I regret to inform you we are not inbred hicks. People who want to believe that enduring a black president was all they ever had to contribute to solving the problem. People who want to believe that enduring a black co-worker (whom they believe is there only because of their race) is the sum of the tolerance required of them. People who believe that having a black neighbor or friend absolves them of the problem of racism. The nice thing about the Trump presidency is how very naked it makes our racism. Blush and look away if you like, but the rotting naked zombie of racism in our history is right there, living its best half-life in the person of our president and his cabinet. Trump’s presidency pulls the comforting fig leaf off our denial, off the pretensions that we have to being “over” the problem. We are decidedly  not  over being racist as a nation, which would be obvious from how hard we deny it if it wasn’t from the copious amounts of evidence we have on the topic in the social sciences. My hope is this: it’s getting harder and harder to deny that we have issues as a nation, though I’m sure people are going to try in my comments section. This infection has come to its head in many ways, and it’s not going to go back underground. What, my fellow Americans, do you plan to do about it? Denial isn’t going to work here, and frankly I’m looking forward to our demographics shifting so that I’m not up to my fucking neck in shrill racist dog whistles being given the appearance of being serious political commentary by terrified white people whose informal (and sometimes formal) education is full of bestial PoC who must be managed lest they breed us out of existence, cheat us out of our hard-worked gains, or otherwise contaminate our genes. What are you going to do about it? For myself—I’m going to enjoy voting Trump and his cronies out of office. And I’m going to keep writing these kinds of things because I have no fucking chill and I’m dead tired of this malignant cancer. I will not sit here and pretend the whistles aren’t ringing in my ears. Edited to add:  I think referring people to literature on how racism is disseminated in public and political discourse would help. I’ve also included some material from workshops on dealing with structural racism and articles about the effect of structural racism on policy analysis—I don’t think anyone has a perfect solution, yet, but it’s easier to have an informed discussion in the presence of reading material. Dog Whistle Politics: How Coded Racial Appeals Have Reinvented Racism and Wrecked the Middle Class   An excerpt from the previous book may be found  here   . Thank Ronald Regan and Bill Clinton for Donald Trump’s Dog-Whistle Ways   How Trump is Recycling Nixon’s ‘Law and Order’ Playbook   Coded and Loaded: How Politicians Talk About Race and Gender Without Really Talking About Race and Gender   Race, Power, and Policy: Dismantling Structural Racism   Confronting Structural Racism in Research and Policy Analysis   The Fight to Redefine Racism   I’d also generally recommend seeking out non-white authors on this topic—there are some  brilliant  people writing about the problem and potential solutions.