O…….k. As a an African-American who lived in China for 6 years, I think I am uniquely suited to answer this question. So, sit down and see yourself through the eyes of a real outsider. First, both have completely different origins and roots. In the Western world, what we define as racism was created by Northern European scholars in order to debase and dehumanize people who weren't white and weren’t Christian. It was a world view created to rationalize slavery and colonialism and help the participants to sleep at night, knowing that they were committing unspeakable atrocities. White racism is much more thought out, much more pervasive and is much older. White racism is “backed” by “sciences” like eugenics and evolution. It’s the belief that a people are inherently inferior because they aren’t white, Christian and “civilized.” Also, it’s based on inherent white-European supremacy and how they are supreme in every human way. It’s actually based on the linear progression of history from Barbarity to civilization and that Europeans are the height of human evolution. However, racism in the western world is seen as a historical atrocity and, it almost feels like, people nowadays are trying to work on it. Either, it feels to me, people are trying to eradicate it ( U.S) or are trying to convince themselves that they are so progressive and enlightened that they are beyond and above racism or the mention of race (Europe). In America, and this is important, racism is systemic, meaning that it has permeated policy, and has been ensconced in institutions that perpetuate the idea of black inferiority even though the members of the institution might not feel that way. Chinese racism isn’t even racism yet. It’s more like Xenophobia, mixed with Afrophobia, mixed with an inferiority complex that’s on top of a superiority complex. China clearly has a colorism issue and feels that because of its 5,000 years of civilization it should be “above” certain people and cultures. I once asked a Chinese coworker about this. She said “ we(Chinese) should be on top, we should be the leaders of the world.” She is one person, but what she says resonates with me, it resonates with what I hear from many Chinese people about how they feel about where China should be. I don’t know why, but there does seem to be a cultural supremacist tinge in Chinese culture. The average person, is like an American, they know very little about the outside world but make authoritative judgements based on scant information and poorly formed critical thinking skills. I don’t see it getting better, I see it only getting worse. During my 6 years in China, I saw a thriving African trade center get stripped down and the merchants moved out because of local worries about AIDS and disease. China test everyone who gets a visas to work there for AIDS/HIV but these locals were only concerned that in their minds “African” means “AIDS.” Chinese racism is in the nascent stage, it’s a disparate set of ingredients that are just now beginning to be mixed together in the proverbial soup. Compare Chinese attitudes about how the Uighurs in Xinjiang are all thieves or terrorists, how Africans are all lazy, and then compare that to what Europeans wrote about “savages” and “heathens” that they met in the Americas, then tell me what you think.