I lived in Malaysia for 7 years. I still continue to visit KL occasionally. Here’s what I think. Malaysians love convenience. What that means is they are carriers of borrowed opinions. This means it's much easier for them to borrow opinions in the form of narratives, beliefs, stories, and even news. This plays an important role in the upbringing of families and the education system. This meddled with typical stereotypes gives birth to racism. Malaysia has three races combined that makes Malaysia what it is. The Malays, Chinese and Indians. Generally speaking, all three of these races are inherently and deeply racist from within anyway. We haven’t fought hard enough in this part of the world against racism. We are very protective of our races and not that excited with aliens. The other contributing factor to this is granting citizenship statuses. Asian countries haven’t really flirted with the idea of citizenship much like westerners did. Because flirting with the idea of granting citizenship or naturalization means to also eradicate racism from within. Now this does not mean citizenships were not given but it is not the same as west. Add the religion into its factor and there is a whole different level of added bigotry, racism, xenophobia etc. All three races (Malays, Chinese, Indians) are somewhat religious and conservative with their ancestral identity. Even though Malaysia tries its best to practice religious tolerance, you’ll have to note that majority always overpowers minority. Let’s not forget  Bumiputera law  that protects the Malay race more than Chinese or Indian race only because of their existence. There is no meritocracy in Malaysia. The  Bumiputera law  has damaged more than it protected Malaysia. It sends a message that their are certain people that are privileged simply because they were born in certain race. What sort of privilege is that. Malaysia needs to reform its primary education system as well. You cannot simply have Malay school, Chinese School or Indian School. You need to bring in a law that must integrate all three races and be very strict against racism in school itself. Yes, I have encountered my fair share of racism during my stay in Malaysia but at the same time, I met and befriended some amazing people from Malaysia. Yes, internally, there is a disturbing racist cruelty that exists in Malaysia. They try not to show it but deep down they are effected in someway or another. But at the same time, I have also attended weddings where Indians married Malays, Malays married Indians or Indians married Chinese. Malaysia can do better. Speak up against racism no matter where you see it. To answer  Are Malaysians really as racist and intolerable to one another as the media portrays them to be? No! Not as the media portrays them to be. Media is a bitch. Don’t trust media!