Well, I’m qualified to answer this. I’m a Canadian, after all. I watched the entire response, not just the first part, so I’ll respond accordingly. To the specific question, yes, I am watching with horror and consternation. I’ve watched Donald Trump lean into the festering boil of US racism since 2015 with horror and consternation. After eight years of good governance and sanity with an eloquent, intelligent, competent and gracious black man as President, to have it overturned. I’ve watched as hate crimes have soared under Trump. I’ve watched as hate crimes spike in counties where he holds rallies. I’ve watched as white supremacists praise him. I’ve watched as Trump has enflamed racism and violence. I’ve watched as he’s encouraged the worst elements among the police to act in the worst ways. After the brutal deaths of Ahmaud Arbery and George Floyd, and the close call faced by Christian Cooper, I’m amazed at the forbearance of the vast majority of the protestors. The overt and systemic racism that black people continue to face in the USA is appalling. And Trump is exploiting it for his own narcissistic ends. Black people are suffering under Trump, as are Asians and Jewish people and others. He’s encouraging bigots to be violent, and then responding by attacking the protestors, a circle of violence that’s hard to comprehend. But Trudeau said a lot more than than the initial sentence. He turned his words and gaze to Canada and Canadians, and our failings. We live in a glass house. We aren’t perfect by any means. He pointed out clearly that black people and racialized people in Canada face systemic and often overt racism as well. And that we have to do better. We have to be allies. He used the challenging situation in the USA to challenge Canadians to be better ourselves. I’ve written about the   I was accidentally born with. I know how lucky I am, and I know the converse as well. The people born without all the marbles I had the good fortune to receive have to work a lot harder and smarter to get the opportunities that I have received. Trudeau’s response, formulated carefully and delivered eloquently, was the right one. He challenged me to do more. I’ll try.