Yes. Mostly, it comes from things you don’t have to worry about: I grew up in a place where almost everyone was Black. I was part of the dominant group. Because I was part of the dominant group, I never had to worry about racism. Because I never had to worry about racism, I assumed that it was mostly dead, and that whatever remained of it must be either vestigial or, at the very most, the dying embers of a Jim Crow system on its way to its final extinction. When I heard Black Americans complain about racism, it seemed to me that they were whining. Racism was an absurdity. Surely, there couldn’t be very many racists around in the 21st century. Maybe people who complained about it should just shut up and stop making excuses already. If anyone complained of racism, my first reflex was to immediately be skeptical. I wouldn’t confront them, but I would go find 1001 reasons why what had happened wasn’t about racism. Then, I would pat myself on the back for being aloof and rational. Conservative Whites loved me.  Why can’t the other Blacks be more like you, Habib? You’re so reasonable! Like those conservatives, I very much wanted to believe that I lived in a world where racism was dead. Unlike them, however, I was Black. And, sooner or later, I was going to be on the receiving end of racism. And when that happened, I was going to be forced to see what I had been desperately trying not to see. We are the sum of our experiences. I can’t make anyone believe in racism. I know no one else could have made me believe. And, if you don’t believe in White privilege, I’m not even asking you to change your mind. All I ask is that you refrain from telling people that their experiences and perceptions of racism are invalid or unfounded. If I tell someone that I am deciding to boycott a business because I find a certain event racist, I am not asking for permission or validation. And I’m certainly not seeking to debate. You are free to continue giving your money to businesses I boycott. And you are free to continue not seeing racism where I see it. But what you are not free to do is to tell me that my perspective is unfounded. A bon entendeur, salut!