This is one of those places where people invariably end up talking past each other because language is slippery, and if you don’t pin it down precisely it has a tendency to wriggle away from you. The question about whether men can be objectified is similar to the question of whether people who belong to a racial minority—for example, Black people in the United States—can be racist. There are two different definitions of “racism.” Racism can mean “holding prejudiced, stereotypical, or bigoted attitudes about people based on race,” by which definition Black people can and sometimes are racist. But racism can also mean “of or relating to a systemic, structural form of oppression in which members of one race oppress or deny participation in civil institutions to members of another race.” By that definition, Black people in the United States cannot be racist, because they are not the dominant race; that is, they do not control the systems of society, civil institutions, and governance. Yet when you see arguments about racism on the Internet, these two definitions get used interchangeably, so the arguments go whizzing by each side without finding their mark like so many poorly-fired arrows. The same thing happens in many conversations about feminism. Some (not all) feminists claim that men can not be objectified. Many other people, some of whom are  also  feminists, say this is complete codswallop, and point to examples of individual men being objectified all the time, or media reports that objectify men, or customs that objectify men. They’re talking past each other because they’re using different definitions of “objectification.” As with the different definitions of “racism,” the definitions of “objectification” can look at an individual or a structural level. On an individual level, objectification is what happens when one person disregards another person’s humanity. Can men be objectified? Yes, absolutely. It’s self-evidently clear that they can be. It’s not even hard to find examples. Of course men can be objectified! On a structural level, “objectification” means a pattern of institutionalized behavior where a dominant group treats a subordinate group as second-class citizens, or deprives them of their personhood altogether. By  this  definition, men can’t be objectified, because men  are  the dominant group. And so you’ll see flame wars and indignant arguments flying all around each other on Internet forums like so many angry hornets, and none of the arguments will stick because the folks making the arguments don’t stop to consider that they’re using the same word in two entirely different ways. This is what happens when you assume that other people use language the same way you do.