This is my personal take as an African American expat from the US who has been living in Brazil for about a decade: Yes, Brazil is racist - but in the main, it’s a different kind and flavor of racism than that of the US. Raw racism in the US usually has an angry and vicious quality, often tinged with flat out hate and pregnant with potential violence. Generally, you don’t see that kind of vicious racism in Brazil. Brazil got over its transition from slavery without going through decades of racial segregation, Jim Crow laws, race massacres, lynchings, political disenfranchisement, and all the other stuff associated with US racism that warped its social and political fabric, and whose pernicious legacy is felt to this day. Because Brazil lacked that legacy of widespread racist viciousness, I think Brazilians, including those of African descent, didn’t feel the same urgency to confront and challenge racism as happened and continues to happen in the US. Partly because Brazil’s is a more easy going culture, but also because the incentives were not as powerful: the impact of racism was immediate and far more oppressive, humiliating, and lethally dangerous, in the US, so it made sense that those in literal danger of getting killed by something would do more to tackle it than those whose stakes were not as high. Further contributing to that lack of urgency is that Brazil never had the “One Drop Rule” prevalent in America: there, an abhorrence by whites of racial mixing led to laws whereby those with even a tiny trace of African ancestry were deemed black, subject to all the racist oppression that went with that - I believe it was 1/32, meaning that if somebody was 1 part black to 31 parts white, he/she was considered black. So there was no “escape” from blackness in the US - at least not legally (although, of course, many light skinned blacks who could pass as white went ahead and did if they could get away with it). By contrast in Brazil, which never had that degree of abhorrence of miscegenation, mixed race people who in the US would have been considered and treated as black, frequently opt out of (or flat out run away from) that identity, with the result that Brazilians of African descent never coalesced and developed a common identity to the same extent that their peers in the US did. If US racial categories were applied in Brazil, it would be a majority black country. But the ranks of Brazilians of African descent are broken into a variety of categories, based on degrees of racial admixture, and a hierarchy based on lightness of skin and Caucasian features. Brazilian whites on the other hand are white, period. The end result can be seen in who controls and runs Brazil. In a country that is majority black by US standards, or at least majority mixed race by anybody else’s standard, this is what the government cabinet looks like - and this photo is from a progressive government, the previous one. The current government is even whiter (and more male): Which segues into the biggest manifestation of racism in Brazil: the very structure of the country and its institutions ensures that blacks are, and for the most part will remain, an economically impoverished class, with no viable fix in sight. Many in Brazil who don’t want to confront that try and explain it away by saying inequality in Brazil is based more on class than on race, but in reality, the overlap between class and race in Brazil is quite significant: rich neighborhoods are overwhelmingly inhabited by whites (whether US type whites or Brazilian “whites”), while the favelas or slums and poorer neighborhoods have a much darker hue. And the Brazilian system itself has a baked in mechanism that reinforces and perpetuates that inequality: the education system. Advancement in Brazil for most people is based on education and graduating from the elite public universities, whose admissions are based on testing. In of itself, that sounds good - a meritocracy where those who score highest in admission exams get admitted, so what can be wrong with that? Hiccup though is that the Brazilian public education system is generally crappy, severely underfunded and poorly run. There’s a parallel  private  school system however, that is far superior to the public one, but that is quite expensive, beyond the financial reach of most Brazilians. So you end up with two educational pipelines: a crappy but free public one, for the children of the poor and lower class (mostly black and mixed race), and an expensive good one for the children of the rich and upper middle class (overwhelmingly white). And the results of those pipelines are reflected in who scores high enough to get into those good/ elite universities that are the surest path to success and advancement in Brazil. Average kids from the overwhelmingly white upper classes whose parents could afford to send them to private schools can get into those universities, while only exceptionally smart kids from the overwhelmingly poor and (darker) lower classes can overcome the handicap of their crappy public school education to do the same. Essentially, you have a system that almost guarantees success if you’re born financially comfortable (which tracks closely with whiteness), while placing huge obstacles in your path if you’re not. And beyond that kind of structural racism, there’s also significant social and economic racism. Skipping the elites and just going into the workforce, even the blue collar uneducated work force, it’s quite visible just whom employers like to hire and present as their face to the public. Most jarring example for me was when I lived in Copacabana - a touristy and (relatively) upper class neighborhood in Rio de Janeiro, where in all the restaurants on its main strip facing the beach, Avenida Atlantica, I did not see a single black waiter, for years on end. Busboys, janitors, and security, yes. But the faces with which the business interacts with the public? All white or “white”. Same in all the higher end stores, movie theaters, malls, etc. You hardly ever see black people in these jobs. Out in the back and doing the menial work, yes, but almost never at the front end interacting with customers. In jobs like street sweepers, electric company work crews, etc, where most of the workforce is black, the supervisor or boss most often is white or “white”. Even in classifieds/ “help wanted” job advertisements, there are frequently qualifications about “appearance” or “presentable” that are commonly understood as meaning that blacks or people with clearly African features need not apply. And on Brazilian TV and movies? In a country that is majority black or mixed race, black soap opera (Brazil’s biggest entertainment thing) or movie stars are quite rare, and to the best of my knowledge (although I don’t watch Brazilian TV that much so could be mistaken), there is not a single black major news anchor, major reporter, or night show host. So yes, Brazil does have its share of racism. As noted, not the same type of racism as in the US, but one with its own organic flavor. And in some ways, worse than in the US, where it is at least often challenged and confronted head on. In Brazil by contrast, racism and its impact are allowed to just mosey on by, with a significant chunk of the population, including many of its victims, pretending that it does not exist, and so giving it a far longer lease on life than it otherwise would have.