In the US, racism is quite literally black and white. Those who have had a black ancestor is considered black and most others are white. Racism relies on the majority power there. In India, caste system is a continuum. Brahmins think they are superior to the Kshatriyas. The Kshatriyas rather than being offended are happy to be above the Vaishyas. And the Vaishyas have little issues with this as they are above the Shudras. And the Shudras have not complained as much either as they have dominated over a spectrum of “outcastes”. The more dominant of the outcastes discriminate the bottom part of the depressed castes. And the tribals are discriminated by outcastes. If it were a simple case of one caste dominating over the other, the thing would have been solved a long time ago. Unlike in the US, the upper most castes are very small minority and didn’t have much political power in the past. However, the spectrum allows almost every caste to have a dominant position in relation to some other caste. While they complain about the caste above, they are quite reluctant to release their hegemony over the caste below. A while ago a friend of mine was debating with me on the caste system. I argued that these hierarchies are meaningless. As he pushed on, I cited the example of Lord Krishna who was raised as a Shudra and was as holy as any other God. These caste divisions are crazy. For that he got offended saying that Krishna belonged to his caste [Yadav] and they were not Shudras and the one above them. And these are liberally mixed with economic classes, religious beliefs, ethnicities and language - the caste system is not standing alone but bolstered by several other systems. And a lot of the caste discrimination and chaos occurs in the middle. The Backward Castes [BC] of a slightly progressive state like Tamil Nadu, rather than fighting to remove the caste evils imposed on them often prey on the castes lower than them. Thus, the Vanniyars and Pallars fight in the north while Thevars and Parayars fight in the south -  Tamil Nadu’s caste fields: In 1 year, over 100 murders in two southern districts   . None of these castes are upper castes in an absolute sense, however in a spectrum of castes they are above someone. Somewhat similar happen in Maharashtra between the middle caste Marathas and the Mahars - a slightly well-off among the Scheduled Castes. In the US, it is quite clear to all blacks that racism and slavery is evil. However, in India most people of the depressed castes including many Dalits refuse to give up the caste system or fight it straight as they too have someone to dominate over. While they would want the shackles imposed by those higher to be removed they don’t want that to be at the cost of removing shackles they impose on those lower than them. Caste system and its discrimination are not easy to remove because most of us are in denial - we try to find quick scapegoats, but refuse to see that almost every community is intent on keeping the caste system for their own benefits.