To be honest, astronomically safer. I can only speak from experience, but as a black person of Caribbean descent, I have received more racism/discrimination from minorities, than I have from white people in this nation. See, I used to live in an area of East London which was predominantly minority ethnic, and was filled with non-black minority teenagers using the n word, saying I looked "disgusting" or "like a girl" for having cairnrows, saying I acted "white" or "posh" for speaking in RP, not to mention that homophobia (which is obviously irrelevant at this stage). As soon as I moved to a predominantly white area, my neighbours were nicer, my family and I were invited in by a nice elderly woman for tea, and people smile and wave all the time. I even nod to patrolling police officers when I'm on my way to the corner shop (convenience store if you're an American). Perhaps it's the area I live in, or perhaps it's the way I dress, either way, it's safer for me. This doesn't mean there isn't racism in the UK however, but I'll get to that soon. If we look at the statistics, we can see that in comparison to the rest of Europe, and the world, Britain is one of the least racist. This Harvard-based "implicit association test", shows the levels of racial implicit bias in each country. The lower the score, the better. You can see that the United Kingdom possesses one of the lowest scores, particularly in contrast with Eastern Europe. If you wish to look at the states, here you go: Obviously, conclusive statements like the one I'm about to make require plenty of evidence. But, you can see that some states such as Mississippi and South Caroline, are even more implicitly racist than Eastern Europe, according to these maps. Only Oregon, Colorado, Wyoming and New Mexico reach the United Kingdom's level. There are far more statistics online, which I leave to you to research. Britain also has a better (although still abhorrent) history with black people. Slavery was abolished almost 60 years before the States, and in 1834, 40% of government expenditure was used to free all 750,000 slaves in the West Indies - a total of £32bn today. White people in Britain campaigned against the inhumane justice that Africans at the time and their descendents went through, and although there's (much) more to the story, there wasn't years of segregation, or institutional racism, and West Indian people were welcomed in post-WWII, but Theresa May's government recently had the Windrush scandal - oopsies. Anyhow, the question isn't "which country is more racist" the question is about the safety of blacks in the U.K. compared to the U.S. You should always get a second opinion, part of the reason why Quora is so fantastic, but I would say the U.K. fares better. Black people however, are still killed more often by the police (not on the scale in the U.S.), subject to more racial bias in the workplace and in society and more likely to be stopped and search (although a lot of this is to do with the fact black people tend to live in high-crime areas). In fact, a lot of the reason why black people don't get shot as often as in the States is to do with the fact that the police aren't militarised, trained killers, nor do they carry guns, although that has recently changed after terror attacks of the last decade. There are still socioeconomic factors to consider as well, regarding why black people tend to commit more crime. On the whole however, I must say that the U.K. is a safer place for black people to live, work and stay. If someone passes you in the street in London, they won't say anything because Londoners are mean, in a village, or town, they may well say hi. There is also more "afriphobia" (not liking African people) I feel, and because Brits are so polite, regardless of our race, racist Brits will keep everything behind close doors. I have been mistaken for a white person due to my name, and on the phone due to my voice, and have heard racist remarks/"jokes" as a result. Systemic racism is also a huge problem. As with everything, find your own information, articles, and statistics, in order to form your own opinion.          