It’s true if you happen to be sitting in a sociology class where it's defined that way. Otherwise it’s nothing more than the imposition of academic jargon on the rest of the population. For the vast majority of people on the planet, racism is race-based discrimination or bigotry. That’s it. Power is completely irrelevant. Otherwise, imagine this: Let’s say you’re a proud racist. You’re a card-carrying member of the KKK. You support white supremacy unabashedly. You live in a country where you are a member of the dominant race. Now, you decide to go on a safari to Tanzania. Your plane lands and, all of a sudden, you are in a place where your in-group lacks the preponderance of power. Does it mean that you’re no longer racist? Does this mean that you can take a vacation from being a racist, then go back to your country and be racist again? Is this really how this works? What about this? Many people in the US tell me some version of “Black people can’t be racist.” Okay. Let’s say you’re white, and you travel to Nigeria. Can black people in Nigeria also not be racist? They have the most wealth and power. And there are people around who will mistreat you for nothing more than the color of your skin. And if you got into an altercation, the police and justice system would likely favor them. You, the white visitor, might even find that there was systemic bias against you. So, are there at least some black racists in Nigeria? Yes or No? If not, how can that be? And if yes, what happens to these black racists when they travel to Sweden? Are they all of a sudden not racist anymore? This is obviously absurd. What likely happened is that some academic a few decades ago, for reasons that made sense within the context of their academic discipline, decided that a specialized definition of  racism  was needed. Unfortunately, somewhere along the way, some people decided that the sociological jargon was the only valid meaning of the term. But it doesn’t actually make sense when you apply it to real-life situations.