Some of these answers are shocking to me but I’m not sure why I’m shocked. So many people are tap-dancing all over the question and even a few justifying the racism. Speaking about paternalistic states and how racism isn’t overt. Seriously? Racism is racism. Let’s not tip over into the absurd, which this conversation has certainly turned into. Of COURSE Rhodesia was a racist state. Anyone saying or believing anything else are deluding themselves. Seriously delusional. …But at Oxford last week, in the civilised ambience of a Union debate, Smith found himself on trial for having failed to learn the lessons of history. Smith said he refused to apologise for atrocities committed while he held office. He said he had no regrets about the estimated 30,000 Zimbabweans killed during his rule. 'The more we killed, the happier we were. We were fighting terrorists.' This is Ian Smith. It’s why white supremacists find a kinship with Rhodesia. It’s why Dylann Roof had the Rhodesian flag on his jacket. I’m watching a white man right now on a video of whites leaving Rhodesia on YouTube. You wouldn’t believe the language he is using for Black people. Confessions of a Recovering Racist | Daily Maverick   Because it was inevitable, that up until then I was a racist. I was born into the white ruling class in racist Rhodesia. My family, our friends, our government – everyone was racist. I went to a white school – the only people of colour I saw were servants.  Racism was not a belief system. For children like me who grew up in that society it was a fact. We were taught that every other race was a lower form of humanity, and the range of derogatory terms covered everyone from Portuguese to Afrikaans, but most especially “black” . As for the rights of Africans in Africa? Hmph! Why was it that only Whites could vote in Rhodesia and a few token blacks? Because majority rules applies in many other countries except for when the majority of people are black. Then that whole thing changes and now it’s MINORITY rule. It’s the most ridiculous thing I’ve ever heard. You hear most nationalists that say Europe for Europeans, Asia for Asians, but why isn’t Africa for Africans? Why is it okay for a minority group of Europeans to come and live in Africa and rule the entire country? Why is it that Europeans and Americans believe that people should assimilate when immigrants come to their country, except when you come to Africa. Africans should assimilate into EUROPEAN culture on African soil? And no one sees a problem with that. …Makunike’s most daring act as a journalist came in 1970 when he published an editorial after the then Prime Minister Ian Smith had addressed an election meeting at Mt Pleasant Hall near the then University of Rhodesia. It is at this meeting that Mr Smith is said to have remarked that there will be no majority rule in his lifetime. The black students who were part of the students like Witness Mangwende and Simba Makoni responded by walking out singing “Ishe Komborera Africa”. In response, Smith and his cabal of white supporters sang a racist white South African song normally sung at rugby matches titled “Bobbejaan Klim die Berg,” which means “The Baboon Climbs the Mountain”. Yeah. There’s no racism there at all. Like at all. Well, other than the song, “The Baboon Climbs the Mountain.” And the fact that Smith was an unapologetic racist. Rhodesia ran on racist ideology and views. Putting the natives “in their place” not allowing them to even have a say in their own country simply based on the color of their skin. What else could Rhodesia be, with its history and its practice of treating the native Blacks terribly? A racist state. When people defend Rhodesia, they are defending racism, colonialism, and White supremacy. That’s what Rhodesia was.