When I was a child in New Orleans I remember seeing signs that said “white only” and “colored only” I didn't understand. I played with kids of color, but sometimes my mom would call me to come home (not a cell phone, but a yell). I remember my dad stopping at the Gas Station and waiting for Odie, who was African American, to come out smiling to pump gas and look over the car. Mom would say, “ He's a nice colored man”. From a child's point of view I would look back and wonder what was so colorful? It was a long time before I even had a clue about systemic racism. Yes, I grew up in the midst of court mandated deseregation, and wondered why everyone was so mad. After all we got to go to school. Right? No, they were forced to come to my school. Systemic racism. In 1968 I watched the news and heard my parents talk about a great colored man being killed, and how he was different from someone named Malcolm X. I think mom wept. I know she did when Robert Kennedy was killed. Then there were the riots. Systemic racism was beginning to have bones. When I was 18 the KKK ask me and my friends to join up and save the country. But I had a friend who was black, and they wanted me to see him as less than human. Regretfully I considered before tearing up the application. Systemic racism had muscles and tendons . I watched the Olympics and saw some black athletes raise their gloved fists as they were given medals. I was kind of proud of them. Then my friend Donny, my dear black friend who put up with our Crap, drowned trying to save a white kid. Donny became my friend, not my black friend. Systemic racism has skin. I watched Barak Obama take the oath of office as President of the United States. Our first African American President. And I watched with amazement how he and his family carried themselves with rare dignity, such not seen amidst the scandals of Washington D.C. Systemic Racism had a voice. Now I'm a Pastor who has come to grips with the fact that the most segregated hour in our nation is during Sunday Worship. Systemic Racism is still within me, even though I despise it. I didn't understand the signs I saw as a boy, but as an adult they still haunt my reality. I have to own my part of systemic racism, and being ignorant isn't a pass. I'm so sorry.