(Please read all of this before you start with the hateful comments. I admit in it that racism exists, and that it’s wrong. I’m not denying that. Lots of things bother me about racism. But the question is: What bothers you the MOST about racism. So here it goes…) What bothers me the most about racism? That the political left in the US uses it to try and silence their opposition. It worked for awhile too, but then people started to see through it and now it’s not as effective as it used to be in getting people who disagree with you to “sit down and shut up”. Which is part of the reason why the left has found new insults to hurl at someone to silence them: “sexist”, “homophobe”, etc… And when they had a hard time finding actual racist individuals, the left began with their “institutional racism” spiel. It’s the perfect form of racism for their needs, because it implies that people are guilty of it just by being born into the system. A white person can’t do anything to prove that they aren’t racist anymore, because the entire “institutions” are racist. And that’s why so many whites have just given up trying to appear non-racist, particularly on the political right in this country. Just look at Trump’s cabinet. Mostly white guys. Why? Because the left is going to call him a racist no matter what he does, so why bother trying to appease them? Get who he thinks is the best person for the job, without any consideration for race or gender. Here’s a prediction: every person who runs for every position on the Republican ticket in the next election is going to be labelled as “racist”. Even if the person isn’t white. They will be called a “self-hating racist”. The word’s been thrown around so often that it’s lost its effectiveness. In the past, calling someone a racist might have gotten a response of: “No I’m not, and I can prove that I’m not!” Now, the most likely response is: “Whatever, Believe what you want about me. I don’t need to prove anything. I know the truth.” I’m not saying racism doesn’t exist. And I’m not saying it’s not wrong. It does exist. It is wrong. It’s also wrong to see racism EVERYWHERE, even when it’s not there, and to use it to your advantage. The truth is, politically, like many issues the left likes to champion (women’s rights, gay rights, etc…) they know that the worst thing that can happen for them is for those issues to actually get resolved. They NEED those issues to stay alive. They NEED people to think things are as bad now as they were in the 1950s for women and minorities. If people felt like everyone was treated equally, what would the left run on?