There was a patient I remember from my second year of training. He was a white man in his mid 60s who had been assigned to one of the residents in the program. A day or two after his admission, the resident almost got into trouble. It looked like the patient’s housekeeper or personal assistant had brought him some clothes and other items from home. Before the young doctor could comment on how nice and convenient it must be to have such help, it became clear that the “personal assistant” was in fact the patient’s wife! Why did the resident assume that she must be hired help, then? Because she was black. Was this racism? Many will wonder why I’m even bringing race into this. Maybe the doctor had noticed that this couple wasn’t as affectionate as other couples. Or maybe it was the way she was dressed. Or maybe she looked younger than his wife could have been expected to be. Maybe I’m just projecting my own insecurities onto the mind of an innocent former colleague. But here’s the deal: the doctor in question never denied that it was about race, and clearly felt bad about it. So, I ask again, was this doctor racist? In most societies, the status of wife carries a higher social standing than that of hired help. The assumption wasn’t that this woman was a friend or a very solicitous boss. It was that she was a housekeeper. Sure, black-man-white-woman couplings are more common than white-man-black-woman ones. So maybe we can give the poor doc a pass. But still, this is pretty bad, right? Isn’t assuming that someone is less than what they are based on nothing more than the color of their skin a textbook example of racism? Does racism have to involve malice? Does racism have to involve institutional power? Even if that’s the case, can it not be said that physicians have some measure of power over patients and their family members? There is another angle that should be explored. When we say that someone did something racist, or that someone is a racist, what do we mean? Is the world divided between racists and non racists? Is racism a permanent character flaw, an indelible scarlet letter to be worn in perpetuity, or at least until expiation has been demonstrated to enough of an extent to earn absolution? Or is it just one more form of groupism we all slip in an out of, with varying degrees of self-awareness? Would it change your mind or confirm your opinion if I were to tell you that my colleague was a white woman? But what if I told you instead that, as was indeed the case, I was actually the doctor in that story. Was I racist against that woman? Am I a racist? And if not, are you merely absolving me because of the color of my skin? This is what it means to discuss racism in the 21st century. At the aggregate or institutional level, it’s possible to see data showing how the application of the criminal code varies based on the race. This is true whether you look at who is more likely to be arrested for a given type of crime, who is more likely to have a pretrial detention, who is more likely to be sentenced for drug offenses, who is more likely to benefit from discretionary release on parole, and who is more likely to be disenfranchised following incarceration. But at the individual level, it’s very hard to know for certain when an action is motivated by racism. The in-your-face, hostile racism of old is largely dead. We have defeated it. Even racists don’t want to be perceived as such. So what remains in face-to-face interactions is a lot more subtle. It’s a set of unavowed, unexamined, and often unconscious biases. It’s a lack of comfort with a perceived other that leads to an avoidance of all but the most superficial forms of social intercourse. It is also, occasionally, a benevolent paternalism that makes excuses for indefensible behavior if the perpetrator happens to be of a group seen as deserving special care and tenderness. That said, overall, I’m an optimist. It’s hard to see progress when you look at increments of 5 or even 10 years. But when you look at how far we’ve come since the mid 90s, and how much better things were in 1995 than they had been in 1970, it’s hard not to see a world in which racism is slowly being defeated.